So, if you hop into the website for
the course,
which is at front of masters
dot GitHub that IO slash grid
hyphen Flexbox hyphen V2, take a look
at the Flexbox introduction item.
That's the first one on the list there.
I just went through
the slides that are there.
So you have a copy of the slides
we're gonna come back and
revisit those momentarily when
we talk about Flexbox Grid.
And then what we're going to look
at next is the starting code pen.
So, let's go ahead and code and we're
going to start with this particular code
pen the link is there
inside of the website.
So, what I have here is some very
simple HTML and some starting CSS.
So, let's see what we've got
here to get us started and
then we can look at each of these
Flexbox properties independently.
Part of the problem is that we all wanna
rush into making beautiful web pages
without understanding all
of the properties and
values that are available to us.
So, if you build a little system
like this, it isn't supposed to
be pretty that's supposed to simply
demonstrate those properties to you,
you'll get a much better sense
of how all of these things work.
So, here in my HTML I have a bulleted
list a UL followed by a bunch of LIs and
I have only two classes in here on
the second and the fifth bullet,
I have a class of flex to,
some of these bullets have numbers.
Some of them have a little bit of text.
Okay.
So, very, very simple HTML to work with.
In our CSS, we have the setup
a little bit differently.
First of all,
we start with the border box model.
If you're not familiar with the border
box, the way that CSS is configured,
it starts off with a so
called Content box and
it has to do with how we determine
the value of the CSS property width.
Are we going to include the width of
the border and the width of the padding,
plus the width of the content to determine
the value of that property called width.
Or are we just gonna say it's
the width of the content itself.
So, content box says the width
of the content itself,
is the value of the width property,
the border box says
let's include the border and the padding
as well, to determine the value of width.
And it is much easier for
math if you use the border box.
And so,
this is the declaration that you use,
you simply say the box
sizing is border box.
It doesn't inherit by default.
So, the next declaration and you say
universally, the entire universe and
everything that comes before
the universe and after it,
inherent the box sizing and
then you don't have to worry about it.
After that we just have
a body declaration,
we declared a font we remove
the margin and padding.
Some browsers have margin,
some browsers have padding.
It's responsible for the tiny little box
you see around the edges of web pages if
they don't go all the way out
to the edges of the screen,
this is the reason why edge or
margin and padding zero those out.
And we set font size.
And then here UL,
we've turned off our padding,
we put in a little bit of margin
to make look pretty in a border.
We gave it a width and a height.
And then finally down here in our LI,
we've set up a border a background
color a min width and a height,
so, pretty standard stuff
nothing exciting here so far.